# Developers Guide

Modified: 2022-11

## Navigation
1. [Toolchain Installation](#toolchain-installation)
2. [STM32 Headers](#stm32-headers)

> Note for Windows Installations - The binary files included as part of these software installations should be included as part of your system path. If the installer has the option, be sure to enable system path discovery.

## ARM Toolchain Installation
This demo version 10.3 which at the time of writing is the latest arm toolchain. Note that these downloads are large and may take some time.
### MacOSX
Get the CMSIS `arm-none-eabi-gcc` toolchain for ARM Cortex microcontrollers:
```bash
brew install --cask gcc-arm-embedded
```
### Windows
Download version 10.3 from the windows install link [here](https://developer.arm.com/downloads/-/gnu-rm)

## OpenOCD Installation
This demo version 0.11.0 which at the time of writing is the latest `openocd` version
### MacOSX
Get `openocd` using `brew`:
```bash
brew install openocd
```
### Windows
Download xPack OpenOCD v0.11.0-5 (xpack-openocd-0.11.0-5-win32-x64.zip) from the github release link [here](https://github.com/xpack-dev-tools/openocd-xpack/releases)

## CMake Installation
This demo requires a minimum `cmake` version 3.24 to build.
### MacOSX
Install `cmake` using `brew`:
```bash
brew install cmake
```
### Windows
Download version `3.34` or higher from the windows install link [here](https://cmake.org/download/)

## STM32F4 Headers
Get the STM32F4 (and CMSIS) headers from github. You will want to clone this at a location it can be easily referenced across multiple projects:
```bash
git clone git@github.com:STMicroelectronics/STM32CubeF4.git
```
> Note: This repository contains a ton of extra overhead meant for CubeIDE and other toolchains. This has no effect on the binary size since only what we include (and subsequent includes) will be used.

## VSCode Integration
In order to setup VSCode for development with the STM32F411, it is recommended you install the following extensions:
1. `ms-vscode.cpptools`
2. `marus25.cortex-debug`
3. `twxs.cmake`

Create a `.vscode` folder in the repository root then copy the files in the [vscode](vscode) directory into it. The files included provide the following capability:
1. `c_cpp_properties.json` -> configuration for intellisense and static analysis tools.
2. `launch.json` -> plugin for vscode debugging interface.

Because the `c_cpp_properties.json` requires the compile commands file generated by cmake to operate, you will need to configure cmake for the project in order to realize these changes. The file looks for a `compile_commands.json` file in the `build` directory.